= Karma Server

Customer: Marine Biological Laboratory / Encyclopedia of Life

Basecamp: http://westarete.basecamphq.com/projects/3622221

A web service provider for tracking "karma" points of users who are
distributed across several separate web applications.

== Mime Types

Each resource can be accessed via HTML, JSON, or XML. To control the format, 
the Accept header can be set to the desired mime type, or a file extension
can be appended to any URL. For example, to get the summary of bob's karma in
JSON format, you can issue a GET request to +/users/bob/karma.json+. 

The default format is HTML.

= Resources

== Users

Users in this system represent the users of the web application. They have no
ability to authenticate to the Karma server. Users are uniquely identified by
their URI. 

Users only have one real attribute: their permalink. This is the last path
segment of the URI that identifies the user. The permalink is set and chosen
by the client.

==== Get list of all Users
  
Get a list of all users currently in the karma server database.  Will return
the same information as the /users/bob action, mentioned below, but for
all users.

  GET /users

==== Get a New User
  
Get a new user object.  This method allows you to see what the user object 
looks like and allows you to manipulate and change it without any chance to 
affect any actual data.

  GET /users/new

==== Create a New User

Create a new user "bob". You will automatically be able to access the value
of bob's tags -- you do not need to create the tags individually. If
the user already exists, then this request will have no effect.

  PUT /users/bob

==== Get Information on a User
  
Get information about user bob. This would include the creation time, bob's
karma score, latest activity, related URI's, etc.

  GET /users/bob

==== Update a User
  
Rename the "bob" user to "bobby". The resource will now only be accessible as
+/users/bobby+ (and likewise for any other place that this tag is
referenced). All data associated with the user is still intact.

  PUT /users/bob?permalink=bobby

==== Delete a User
  
Delete user "bob", along with all of his karma and karma history.

  DELETE /users/bob

==== Get User's Karma Summary
  
Return details about bob's total karma score. Two versions are returned -- one
that includes the ability for points to go negative, and the other that only
allows points to go down to zero. Also included are the total positive and 
negative points that have been accumulated.

  GET /users/bob/karma

== Tags

Tags are the containers that are used to hold karma points. The client 
defines one or more unique tags, and these tags are then available to
all users for storing points within the scope of the client's website.

Shared Tags are tags prefixed by a 'karma:'. An admin defines one or more 
unique shared tags, and these tags are then available to all users for 
storing points within the scope of all websites with access to the server.

Like users, tags only have one real attribute: their permalink. This is the
last path segment of the URI that identifies the tag. The permalink is set
and chosen by the client.

==== Get list of all Tags
  
Get a list of all tags currently in the karma server database.  Will return
the same information as the /tags/plants action, mentioned below, but for
all tags.

  GET /tags

==== Get a New Tag
  
Get a new tag object.  This method allows you to see what the user object 
looks like and allows you to manipulate and change it without any chance to 
affect any actual data.

  GET /tags/new

==== Create a Tag
  
Create a new tag "plants". Each user in the system will automatically get
"plants" tag. If the tag already exists, then this request will have
no effect.

  PUT /tags/plants

==== Get Information on a Tag
  
Get information about the tag "plants".

  GET /tags/plants

==== Update a Tag
  
Change the name of the plants tag to "flowers". The resource will now only
be accessible as +/tags/flowers+ (and likewise for any other place that 
this tag is referenced). All data associated with the tag is
still intact.

  PUT /tags/plants?permalink=flowers

==== Delete a tag
  
Destroy the plants tag. This will remove the plants tag for each 
user in the system, along with all karma associated with that tag.

  DELETE /tags/plants

== Adjustments

Adjustments represent a change in karma for a given user, for a given tag.

They differ from tags and users in the way that they're created and
referenced; they're not named explicitly by the client. Instead, they're 
assigned an integer identifier by the karma server when they're created.

Adjustments also have two optional attributes: object_uuid and 
action_timestamp. These attributes are only meaningful to a client, the 
Karma Server only stores them. 

The Object UUID is intended to store an identifier the client uses to 
reference an object that relates to an adjustment. The Action Timestamp is
intended to store a timestamp of the moment a user earned karma, before the
karma was requested to or issued from the Karma Server.

==== Increment Karma

Increment the karma in bob's plant tag by three points. The "Location"
header of the response redirects the client to the new adjustment.  

  POST /users/bob/tags/plants/adjustments?adjustment[value]=3

==== Decrement Karma
  
Decrement the karma in bob's plant tag by one point. The "Location"
header of the response redirects the client to the new adjustment.

  POST /users/bob/tags/plants/adjustments?adjustment[value]=-1
  
==== Save an optional Object UUID with a Karma Adjustment

Increment the karma in bob's plant tag by three points and save an object 
identifier of 'plant_id_3'.

  POST /users/bob/tags/plants/adjustments?adjustment[value]=3&object_uuid='plant_id_3'

==== Save an optional Time of Action with a Karma Adjustment

Increment the karma in bob's plant tag by three points and save an action 
timestamp of 'April 2nd at 3pm' to be saved with the adjustment.

  POST /users/bob/tags/plants/adjustments?adjustment[value]=3&action_timestamp='April 2nd at 3pm'
  
==== Save an optional Object UUID and Time of Action with a Karma Adjustment

Save an object identifier of 'plant_id_3' and a action timestamp of 'April 2nd at 3pm' 
to be saved with a Karma adjustment. Append the following to a Karma Increment or 
Karma Decrement Adjustment.
  
  &object_uuid='plant_id_3'&action_timestamp='April 2nd at 3pm'

==== View an Adjustment
  
Get the details for one particular adjustment from user Bob.

  GET /users/bob/tags/plants/adjustments/245

==== View a new adjustment
  
Get a new adjustment object to see what fields it consists of and to have a 
sandbox adjustment object to play around with.

  GET /users/bob/tags/plants/adjustments/new

==== View the History of All Adjustments for a User

Returns a history of all karma adjustments for user "bob". 
*not yet implemented*

  GET /users/bob/adjustments

==== View the History of All Adjustments for a User's Tag
  
Returns a history of all karma adjustments for bob's "plants" tag.

  GET /users/bob/tags/plants/adjustments

==== Delete an adjustment
  
Remove (undo) one particular adjustment for user Bob.

  DELETE /users/bob/tags/plants/adjustments/245
